## Representing ADCP River Discharge Datasets


### Use EnvironmentalMonitoringActivity for survey data

* Surveys can be represented as EnvironmentalMonitoringActivities
* Individual transects can be represented as EnvironmentalMonitoringActivities that are initiated by the survey activity
* These activities can then be related to the dataset(s) that provide the data generated by or derived from those activities

### Use FeatureOfInterest to locate surveys

* Where a survey takes place at a station, use the station-level FoI (or the site level?)
* Where a survey takes place on a site, use the site-level FoI
* Where a survey takes place outside a site, create a location-specific FoI
* Consider what the resolution of location-specific FoIs are and how to ensure that future surveys in the same location (within that resolution) get mapped to the same FoI

### Be explicit in the representation of derived data

* If transect summary data and survey summary data are derived from the velocity data, and the velocity data is derived from the sensor data, then this should be made explicit somehow.
* Making relationships explicit implies that there are separate datasets which are joined together through provenance chains of derivation activities
* The procedure and software used in derivations should be made explicit

NOTE: This is the approach outlined in the example data. See also the section **Consider the granularity of datasets** below.

### Consider the relevancy of the equipment used

* The sensor used is recorded, but the craft used is not (only the craft type is noted). Consider whether this is relevant information.

NOTE: In the example data we invented a craft serial number.
 
### Consider the granularity of datasets

* Are surveys combined into a single dataset (as provided in the examples), or separated out into individual datasets for each survey, or both?
* Are the different levels of detail (survey summary, transect summary, survey velocity, survey sensor) all bundled together into a single dataset or are these separate datasets? If they are combined, how is the user to know what processing methods have been applied from the metadata?
* Fine-grained datasets could be grouped together through the use of DatasetSeries - e.g. a DatasetSeries for all surveys from a given station, site, catchment, region.

### Consider the representation of the data

* This data does not fit neatly into the single-variable-timeseries approach used in the COSMOS data
* The model has a higher level "ObservationDataset" type which is intended to represent any kind of observational data and perhaps be most appropriate, but this says nothing about the format of the data.
* Do these remain as CSV files? If so how is a common structure ensured so that data can be combined easily? Could a CSV-W schema be used?
* If combining surveys, would a gridded format be more suitable with dimensions for time and location? 